---
permalink: /
title: "Gautam Rawat"
author_profile: true
redirect_from: 
  - /about/
  - /about.html
---

I am a curious person who likes to learn new things. I am a Formula 1 fan; my current favourite team is Williams (last year it was McLaren, and they won, so I moved on), and my current favourite driver is Oscar Piastri. In my college time, my dream was to become a Formula 1 engineer, so if any F1 team wants to hire me let me know i can quickly change my favourite team. I used to love playing video games, especially FPS (first-person shooter), but I have stopped now, mostly because life happened, and also friends moved on. Apart from this, I like mathematics very much but haven't practiced it much after college. Recently, I have also started learning about computer science, especially at the system level, like embedded systems. I bought a small Microbit controller to understand embedded stuff; during that, I also learned a new programming language, Rust (basically, I hated C++, and Rust felt easier, but boy, I was so wrong there). If you want to know more about my projects, you can check out this website; hopefully, I have updated it here.

Professionally, I am a Systems Engineer at JLR. I work in seating systems, where we develop and deploy world-class seating features. Basically, I use a systems engineering approach to design and develop the seating features. I wear many hats at work; sometimes, I work as a modeller to design the logical architecture of a feature; sometimes, I work as a requirements engineer to author the system requirements; sometimes, I work as a validation engineer who authors and tests the feature and also debugs any issues on the rigs. When the situation arises, I also get my hands dirty by working in the subsystem domain, where I have helped my system colleagues with the system architecture and subsystem requirements (yeah, I do too many things, but I think I work in an agile environment, so I guess I have to know everything). Apart from this, I am also a system owner for three features. In this role, my main job is basically to captain the ship so that it doesn't hit the iceberg. In this role, I wear all these hats, but I also have to talk with multiple teams so that my feature is developed and deployed properly. One of the teams is the attribute team (which owns customer requirements), and from time to time, I have to check if there are any changes to the feature from the customer's perspective. Or, I talk with infotainment guys to resolve any of their queries. Recently, JLR shifted to a new electrical architecture where major changes came in the infotainment domain, so I talked with them a lot, and during this, I have learned a lot about CAN and Ethernet networks, and also a lot about Service-Oriented Architecture (buzzword - SDV). I guess if you want to know more about systems engineering, there is a great [playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLn8PRpmsu08owzDpgnQr7vo2O-FUQm_fL) on MATLAB's YouTube channel.

Apart from this, I have recently started reading books again. Basically, one weekend, I bought a small book called "Animal Farm," and I liked it so much that I thought book reading is actually very good. But this hobby of mine might not be there for a long time because, in my school also, I started reading Hindi novels, and I thought, "Wow, it is so good," then I got introduced to Cricket, and then I left it there. I guess you can find out about my hobbies in the hobbies section, which is TBD for now.
